FAQ and TROUBLESHOOTING Documentation (#84)
litmuschaos/litmus-docs: website/docs/faq.md

sidebar_label: FAQ
---

### Can we host Mongodb outside the cluster? What connection string is supported? Is SSL connection supported?

Yes we can host Mongodb outside the cluster, the mongo string can be updated accordingly `DataBaseServer: "mongodb://mongo-service:27017"`.

> We use the same connection string for both authentication server and graphql server containers in litmus portal-server deployment, also there are the db user and db            password keys that can tune in the configmap like `DB_USER: "admin"` and `DB_PASSWORD: "1234"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use the same connection string for both authentication server and graphql server containers in litmus portal-server deployment, also there are the db user and db password keys that can be tuned in the configmap like `DB_USER: "admin"` and `DB_PASSWORD: "1234"`.
```

We can connect with SSL if certificate is optional. If our requirement is ca.cert auth for the SSL connection, then this is not available on portal. 

### Is there any way to use Litmus within github? Basically when someone submits a k8s deployment for a PR, We want to run chaos Experiment on that to see whether it passes or not.

> We can use it with the help of github-chaos-action. Using github-chaos-action we can automate the chaos execution on an application in the same place where the code is stored. We can write individual tasks along with chaos actions and combine them to create a custom GitHub workflow. GitHub Workflows are custom automated processes that we can set up in our repository to build, test, package, or deploy any code project on GitHub. Including the Github chaos actions in our workflow YAML, We can test the performance/resiliency of our application in a much simpler and better way. To know more please visit  our Github chaos action [repository](https://github.com/litmuschaos/github-chaos-actions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes, with the help of github-chaos-action we can automate the chaos execution on an application in the same place where the code is stored. We can write individual tasks along with chaos actions and combine them to create a custom GitHub workflow. GitHub Workflows are custom automated processes that we can set up in our repository to build, test, package, or deploy any code project on GitHub. Including the GitHub chaos actions in our workflow YAML, We can test the performance/resiliency of our application in a much simpler and better way. To know more visit our Github chaos action [repository](https://github.com/litmuschaos/github-chaos-actions).
```

### I encountered the concept of `namespace` and `cluster` scope during the installation. What is meant by the scopes, and how does it affect experiments to be performed outside or inside the litmus Namespace?

The scope of portal control plane (portal) installation tuned by the env `PORTAL_SCOPE` of litmusportal-server deployment can be kept as a namespace if you want to provide a very restricted access to litmus; It's useful in dev environments like Okteto cloud etc.
That basically restricts portal installation along with its agent to a single namespace and the chaos operator, exporter all get installed in a single namespace and can only perform and monitor chaos in that namespace.
Other than that there is another key in the control plane’s configmap `litmus-portal-admin-config` called  `AgentScope`, this is given to allow users to restrict access to the litmus self-agent components self-agent is the agent for your control plane cluster (exporter, operator etc), you can use both of them in a way to give access as per the requirement.

> The above holds for the control plane and self agent mainly, for the external agents which can be connected using the CLI, litmusctl you can provide the scope of the agent while using the utility to connect your other cluster to the control plane with access to just a single namespace or cluster-wide access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above holds for the control plane and self agent, for the external agents which can be connected using the litmusctl CLI you can provide the scope of the agent while using the utility to connect your other cluster to the control plane with access to just a single namespace or cluster-wide access.
```

> using a combination of AgentScope: cluster and `PORTAL_SCOPE`  env set to cluster would give you cluster admin privileges to inject chaos on all namespaces where control plane/portal is installed. For external agents just selecting the scope of installation as cluster would be sufficient via litmusctl.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using a combination of AgentScope: cluster and `PORTAL_SCOPE`  env set to cluster would give you cluster-admin privileges to inject chaos on all namespaces where the control plane/portal is installed. For external agents just selecting the scope of installation as cluster would be sufficient via litmusctl.
```

### What does failed status of workflow means in LitmusPortal?

> Failed status indicates that the default hypothesis of experiment was disproved and some of the experiments in the workflow failed, In such case the resiliency score will be less than 100%.

Reviewer 2: Failure could also be due a a misconfigured step or error in argo workflows besides the normal experiment failures

Author: Is It ok?
Failed status indicates that either there is some misconfiguration in the workflow or the default hypothesis of the experiment was disproved and some of the experiments in the workflow failed, In such a case, the resiliency score will be less than 100.

> Failed status indicates that the default hypothesis of experiment was disproved and some of the experiments in the workflow failed, In such case the resiliency score will be less than 100%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Failed status indicates that the default hypothesis of the experiment was disproved and some of the experiments in the workflow failed. In such a case, the resiliency score will be less than 100%.
```

### How can I setup chaoshub of my own gitlab repo in Litmus Portal?

> In the litmus portal when you go to the chaoshub section and you click on connect new hub button, you can see that there are two modes of authentication i.e public mode and private mode. For public mode, you only have to provide the git URL and branch name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the litmus portal when you go to the chaoshub section and you click on connect new hub button, you can see that there are two modes of authentication i.e public mode and private mode. In public mode, you only have to provide the git URL and branch name.
```

> In the litmus portal when you go to the chaoshub section and you click on connect new hub  button, you can see that there are two modes of authentication i.e; public mode and private mode. For public mode you do not have to do anything , just provide the git url and branch name that’s all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the litmus portal when you go to the chaoshub section and you click on connect new hub button, you can see that there are two modes of authentication i.e public mode and private mode. For public mode, you only have to provide the git URL and branch name.
```

> For  private mode, we have two types of authentication; Access token and SSH key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In private mode, we have two types of authentication; Access token and SSH key.
```

> For  private mode we have two types of authentication one is the access token and another one is the ssh key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For private mode, we have two types of authentication; Access token and SSH key.
```

> For the access token, you have to go to the settings of gitlab and in the Access token section, add a token with read repository permission. After getting the token, go to the Litmus portal and provide the gitlab url and branch name along with the access token. After submitting your own chaos hub is connected to the Litmus portal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the access token, go to the settings of GitLab and in the Access token section, add a token with read repository permission. After getting the token, go to the Litmus portal and provide the GitLab URL and branch name along with the access token. After submitting, your own chaos hub is connected to the Litmus portal.
```

For the access token, go to the settings of GitLab and in the Access token section, add a token with read repository permission. After getting the token, go to the Litmus portal and provide the GitLab URL and branch name along with the access token. After submitting, your own chaos hub is connected to the Litmus portal.

> For the second mode of authentication i.e; SSH key, In SSH key once you click on the SSH, It will generate a public key. You have to use the public key and put it in the gitlab setting. Just go to the settings of gitlab, you can see the SSH key section, go to the SSH key section and add your public key. After adding the public key.Get the ssh type url  of the git repository and  put it in the Litmusportal along with the branch, after submitting  your own chaoshub is connected to the Litmus Portal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the SSH key, click on the SSH and it will generate a public key. You have to use this public key and put it in your GitLab account. Just go to the settings of GitLab, you can see the SSH key section, go to the SSH key section and add your public key. After adding the public key. Get the ssh type URL of the git repository and put it in the Litmus Portal along with the branch. After submitting, your own chaoshub is connected to the Litmus Portal.
```

### Does Litmus 2.0 maintain backward compatibility with kubernetes?

> Yes Litmus maintains a separate CRD manifest to support backward compatibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes, Litmus maintains a separate CRD manifest to support backward compatibility.
```

> ### Can I run Litmus chaos Outside of my kubernetes clusters?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Can I run LitmusChaos outside of my Kubernetes clusters?
```

> Yes, you can run the ansible experiments outside of k8s cluster which are dockerized under this image litmuschaos/ansible-runner:ci. But other components such as chaos-operator,chaos-exporter and runner are kubernetes native.It requires k8s cluster to run on it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes, you can run the ansible experiments outside of the k8s cluster which is dockerized under this image litmuschaos/ansible-runner:ci. But other components such as chaos-operator,chaos-exporter, and runner are Kubernetes native. They requires k8s cluster to run on it.
```

### How to achieve High Availability of MongoDB and how can we add persistence to MongoDB?

Currently, the MongoDB instance is not HA, we can install the MongoDB operator along with mongo to achieve HA. This MongoDB CRD allows for specifying the desired size and version as well as several other advanced options. Along with the Mongodb operator, we will use the MongoDB sts with PV to add the persistence.
 
### Can I create workflows without using dashboard?

> Currently you can’t. But We are working on it. Shortly we will publish samples for doing this via API/SDK and litmusctl.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, you can’t. But we are working on it. Shortly we will publish samples for doing this via API/SDK and litmusctl.
```

> ### Do Litmusctl support actions which are currently performed  from the portal dashboard?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Does Litmusctl support actions that are currently performed from the portal dashboard?
```

### Does Litmusctl support actions that are currently performed from the portal dashboard?

> For now you can create agents and projects, also you can get the agents and project details by using litmusctl. To know more about litmusctl please refer to the [documentation of litmusctl](https://github.com/litmuschaos/litmusctl/blob/master/Usage.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For now, you can create agents and projects, also you can get the agents and project details by using litmusctl. To know more about litmusctl please refer to the [documentation of litmusctl](https://github.com/litmuschaos/litmusctl/blob/master/Usage.md).
```

###  What is the minimum system requirement to run Portal and agent together?

> To run LitmusPortal you need to have a minimum 1 GiB  memory and 1 core of cpu  free.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run LitmusPortal you need to have a minimum of 1 GiB memory and 1 core of CPU free.
```

> ###  Can I use Litmuschaos for Production?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###  Can I use Litmus in Production?
```

Reviewer: Because everywhere we have mentioned litmus and not litmuschaos

> Yes, you can use Litmuschaos in production. Litmus has a wide variety of experiments and is designed as per the principles of chaos. But, If you are new to Chaos Engineering, We would recommend you to first try Litmus on your dev environment, then After getting confidence you should use it for Production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes, you can use Litmuschaos in production. Litmus has a wide variety of experiments and is designed as per the principles of chaos. But, if you are new to Chaos Engineering, we would recommend you to first try Litmus on your dev environment, and then after getting the confidence, you should use it in production.
```

> ### How resilience score is Calculated?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How is resilience score calculated?
```

> Resilience score is calculated on the basis of the weightage and the ProbeSuccessPercentage of the experiment. Resilience for one single experiment is the multiplication of the  weight given to that experiment and the Probe Success Percentage. Then we get the total test result by adding the resilience score of all the experiments. And the Final Resilience Score is calculated by dividing the total test result by the sum of the weights of all the experiments combined in the single workflow. For more detail refer to [this blog](https://dev.to/litmus-chaos/how-the-resilience-score-algorithm-works-in-litmus-1d22).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The resilience score is calculated on the basis of the weightage and the Probe Success Percentage of the experiment. Resilience for one single experiment is the multiplication of the weight given to that experiment and the Probe Success Percentage. Then we get the total test result by adding the resilience score of all the experiments. The final Resilience Score is calculated by dividing the total test result by the sum of the weights of all the experiments combined in the single workflow. For more detail refer to [this blog](https://dev.to/litmus-chaos/how-the-resilience-score-algorithm-works-in-litmus-1d22).
```
